URL: https://support.pipedrive.com/en/article/activities
FETCHED_AS: https://support.pipedrive.com/en/article/activities

Activities - Knowledge Base | Pipedrive 

English Deutsch Español Italiano Français Português (BR) Japanese (日本語) Українська Chinese (繁體中文) Korean (한국어) Eesti Čeština Türkçe Bahasa Indonesia Polski Latviešu valoda Русский Norsk Svenska Suomi Nederlands ภาษาไทย Magyar Română Log in Try it free 

Help Center 
Knowledge Base 
Status 
Contact Support 

All categories Marketplace apps Blog Knowledge Base Academy 

Knowledge Base results : 0 

No results found. 
Try it free 

Knowledge Base 

All categories Marketplace apps Blog Knowledge Base Academy 

Knowledge Base results : 0 

No results found. 

Knowledge Base / Organizing your data / Activities / Activities 

Topics 

Activities 

JT Jenny Takahara 
Last updated: September 3, 2026 

Note: Use the calendar sync feature to sync activities with your calendar provider. Use the meeting scheduler feature to set your availability and book activities with your contacts. 
Activities in Pipedrive represent any action you take to move your deals forward, such as calls, meetings, tasks or emails. You can link activities to people, organizations, leads, deals or projects to keep a clear view of what‘s next. 

Where to find it 

You can find your activities by clicking the activities icon on the left-side navigation menu: 

Note: To see an activity, a user must have visibility into all items linked to it. 

Adding activities 

Note: You can set up an activity as a call , meeting , task , deadline , email , or lunch type by default, but you can also create custom activity types for activities specific to your company’s needs. 
There are several places in Pipedrive where you can create activities in Pipedrive. 

Pipeline view ( deals tab) 

Click the activity icon on a deal card in your pipeline . 

Detail views 

Open the detail view of a deal, project, person or organization and click the activity tab to link an activity directly to that item. 

Leads Inbox 

Open a lead from your Leads Inbox and click on the “Activity” tab at the top to create and link an activity to it. 

Calendar or activities list view 

In the calendar or in the list view of the activities tab, click the “+ Activity” button. 

Contacts 

In the contacts timeline , click “+” > Add activity on the right side of the screen when hovering over a contact’s timeline. 

Mobile app 

Click the “+” in the top right of the activities section of your mobile app to add activities. 

Adding emails as activities 

Send emails from the Sales Inbox or detail views and automatically add them as activities . 

This helps you reduce reporting gaps and track your team’s effort more accurately in the activities performance report, without creating separate activities manually for each email. 

You can enable this option by default in your email sync settings . 

You can also adjust it directly in the email composer before sending. 

Adding activities in bulk 

If you need to create multiple activities at once, use a spreadsheet import or create them directly from supported list views . 

Bulk activity creation is available in the list views of the deals , contacts , leads and Sales Inbox (Sent folder) sections. 

In each of them, select the items you want to create activities for, then use the bulk option to add multiple activities at once. 

For step-by-step instructions for each list view, see our dedicated article How can I create activities in bulk? 

Scheduling an activity 

Note: Active calendar sync is required to send activity invites. Learn how to sync your calendar in this article . 
The Schedule an activity window displays your schedule for the selected day on the right and the activity fields on the left. 

This helps you schedule your activities efficiently, prevents double-booking and you can reschedule your existing activities as needed. 

In the Schedule an activity prompt, you can fill in the following activity details: 

Title – Name of your activity 

Type – Default or custom activity type 

Time, date and duration – When and how long the activity is 

Busy/Free – Activities are set to "Free" by default. If an activity is set to “Busy,” your customers can’t book that time slot through any Scheduler links. 

Note – A description of your activity. This is private and only visible within your Pipedrive account. 

A few other notable activity fields: 

Last activity date – shows the date of the last activity that was marked as done 

Next activity date – shows the date of the next activity you scheduled that isn’t marked as done yet 

Update time – The date of the last update made on an item (a new activity created, a field updated, moving stages etc.) 

To add guests , a location , or a description to your activity, expand the section under the time, date and duration section of the activity window. 

Guests – The people you want to invite to the activity. This can be either your existing Pipedrive contacts or an external email address. 
Invite guests – Adding email addresses or Pipedrive contact people to the guests’ section sends out email activity invitations to them. 

Location – The address of your activity. Pipedrive automatically checks if the location matches a geo-location on Google Maps. In the activities list view, you can click on the location and see it on Google Maps. 

Description – Additional details about the activity that will be synced to your external calendar. Unlike the note added to your activity, the description is publicly visible to any guests added to the activity. 

Linking deals and contacts 

In the Schedule an activity window, you can select the owner and link the activity to a deal, organization or person. 

When an activity is linked to an item, it appears on the item’s detail page. 

Linked deal – An activity linked to only a deal is automatically linked to the contact person and organization linked to that deal. 

Linked person – An activity linked to a person contact is automatically linked to that person’s organization. 

Linked organization – An activity linked to an organization isn’t automatically linked to its deals or people contacts, since there can be multiple deals and people contacts linked to each organization. 

Completing activities 

Here are a few things to know about completing activities: 

You can mark activities as done from the list view, calendar view, linked items detail pages or the contacts timeline view. 

An activity’s marked as done time field is updated when the activity is marked as done. 

The due date field will always show the time and date the activity was originally scheduled for. 

While you can manually edit the due date field of an activity – even retroactively – the marked as done field always reflects the time that the activity was marked as done. 

You can read more about the logic for the activity marked as done in this article . 

Note: If you’re just getting started with Pipedrive, check out our “Never forget a follow-up” Pipedrive Academy course . 
Deleting activities 

Activities can be deleted from both your calendar and list view. 

To delete an activity from your list view, select one or multiple activities from the left side margin, then click the trash can icon: 

To delete an activity from your calendar view, select the activity and click the trash can icon: 

Was this article helpful? 

Yes 

No 

Related articles 

Got any questions? 
Contact us